# Script for vPICO presentation (2 mins)

I'm Santiago Soler, PhD Student in Geophysics from Argentina.
I want to present the Gradient-boosted equivalent sources: a method for
interpolating large gravity and magnetic datasets through the equivalent
sources technique, developed by Leonardo Uieda and myself.

The equivalent sources technique is an interpolation method for harmonic data.
It consists in:
1. defining a set of sources placed beneath the observation points,
2. estimate their coefficients so they generate the same observed field,
3. and compute the field generated by the sources on any other set of points,
   like a regular grid

This technique has two advantages:
- it generates harmonic fields,
- it takes into account the elevation of the observation points

Its main drawback is that it requires a large amount of memory.
For example, to interpolate a dataset of 2 hundred thousand points, we would
need 3 hundred gigabytes of RAM.

We developed the gradient-boosted equivalent sources as a solution to this
problem.
It consists in dividing the survey area in overlapping windows of equal size.

On the first iteration we select the data and sources that fall under the first
window and fit their coefficients.
Then we predict the field generated by these sources on every point and compute
the residuals.

On the next iteration, we would select the residuals and the sources that fall
under the next window, fit their coefficients, predict the field on every point
and update the residuals.

We finish the process by repeating this step for every window.

Using gradient-boosted equivalent sources we managed to interpolate a ground
gravity dataset from Australia containing more than 1.7 million data points
using less than 10GB of RAM.

If you want to read more about our work, please read the preprint on
EarthArXiV, which is currently under peer-review process in Geophysical Journal
International.
